 
CST 8279 
Lab 10
version 1.0

 

It is recommended that you read the entire lab before you start working.

What you will do:

Use Python to access SQLite3 database, read and write data.
Use Python to open a web browser.
Use Python libraries to perform various tasks.
Task 1:
Download and install SQLite broswer for your laptop operating system. DB Browser for SQLite (DB4S) is a high quality, visual, open source tool to create, design, and edit database files compatible with SQLite. you can download it from https://sqlitebrowser.org/dl/
Download the SQLite3 database week10.db then use DB Browser for SQLite to open and get familiar with the database. The field Link in the db is a base64 encoded value of a URL.
Task 2:
Write a python program that:
asks the user for a record number between 1 and 24, other values must be ignored and the user prompted again. Character q quits the program.
writes and executes a SQLite3 query to extract the Link field associated with the record. (research and use the sqlite3 module)
decodes the base64 encoded value of the URL. (research and use the base64 module)
opens a web browser with the decoded URL. (research and use the webbrowser module)
for that specific record, asks the user for name of the city and the country and updates the record. (research and use the sqlite3 module)
Bonus: try to find out who in the class lives in that city and update the associated student field.
Task 3: Submit your lab
Upload the files to Github and make me a colaborator. Upload the Github link to Brightspace.
Marking Scheme
Rubric
This lab has a maximum mark of 10, awarded according to the following rubric.

Criteria	Mark
Superior capability. Lab submitted meets or exceeds expected standards	10
Satisfactory capability, acceptable product/result	7
Marginal capability, substandard product/result	3
No capability, unacceptable product/result. Work not submitted	0
 

Note that 40% of your final grade comes from the grades you obtained from your labs and assignments.